Tim Benton
Full Stack ILC
Summer 2021
Week 5 summary

What I did:
This week I studied the last of my CSS content. This focused on responsive css 
techniques. Responsiveness in web development is the ability for a page to adapt
to various viewport sizes. In the current paradigm of various mobile, pad, laptop,
and desktop environments, as well as large smart tvs, responsiveness is incredibly
important. The qualifier that allows css to have responsive capabilities is the
viewport meta tag. Css defaults to rendering a page as a virtual viewport that is
larger than the physical viewport and then scaling this virtual viewport down. This
makes pages that aren't responsive look nicer, but hinders the ability to intentionally
make a page responsive. 

Some of the responsive technques I learned were the media query syntax, which is
selector that directs different code fragments to execute given different trigger
parameters. When these paramters are viewport sizes, media query syntax has the 
abiltity to exectute different code for different viewport sizes, thus altering
layout depending on screen size. Responsiveness in elements themselves is also
important. Embedded media on pages, such as images and video, can throw off the 
layout of a page if not well executed. To make these media responive, tricks can
used where the media is embedded inside of a container and scaled to the size of
the container. Then the container is set to be a percentage of viewport width, which
has the effect of adjusting the media according to viewport size. In general,
flexbox and grid should be used as the foundation of a responsive layout, as these
tools are built with responsive functionality in mind.

Problems I had:
Similar to last week, it is not always easy knowing how elements will work when they
are cascaded inside of each other. In my inexperience, this still takes a lot of 
trial and error, which takes time. I feel comfortable that I can achieve most of 
look I am attempting for a page, but my efficiency could greately increase.
